---
layout: post
author: Rachel
title:  "The 3 Best Credit Cards for Beginners!"
published: true
---

# 

Getting a credit card is an important decision for a variety of reasons...

Credit cards are a simple way to help build credit. Your credit score impacts your ability to borrow money/request loans (auto loan, mortgage, personal loan, credit card, student loan, etc.), apply for rentals, and some jobs even run credit checks before hiring employees. Building and maintaing a good credit score will help you get approved with (potentially) lower interest rates if you ever need to borrow money in the future. The credit union I used to work at even offered secured credit cards which were perfect for people with no/bad credit. 

Credit cards are essential for me while I am travelling. They remove the hassle of converting cash into local currency or frequently visiting ATMs to withdraw funds using a debit card. Most credit card companies offer very competitive conversion rates, and some do not have any fees for using the card internationally. When I am travelling, I always use my credit card and pay it off immediately* to avoid cash and fees. 

Last but not least, many credit cards offer unbelievable rewards like cash back, free travel, travel credits, lounge access, certain types of insurance, etc. 

*A key component of avoiding credit card debt is only making charges you can afford and paying off the card in full each month. Credit cards can have very hefty interest rates, so be sure to avoid racking up a bill you cannot afford. 

I currently have three cards that I would highly recommend, and they are the Capital One Venture, DiscoverIt, and Wells Fargo Go Rewards. Each has its own advantages and disadvantages which we will discuss below. 

1. Capital One Venture 

PROS: 
- No foreign transaction fees 
- 2 miles per $1 spent 
- One time statement credit to apply for Global Entry or TSA Precheck 
- No minimum balance to redeem miles 
- CapitalOne cardholder discounts (for example, they are currently offering 10% back from Macy's)
- Free access to CreditWise to check your credit score 
- Easy to use mobile app that allows you to immediately lock your card if it is missing 
- Usually a sign-on bonus 
- Visa card so it is widely accepted
- Miles do not expire 
- Can check if you are pre-approved before applying 
- $100 referral bonus for each person who applies with your link 

CONS: 
- 17.24%, 21.99% or 24.49% APR based on your credit score
- No customer service chat option on the app or website 
- Chip technology 
- Metal card so it is very expensive to replace 
- $95 annual fee 
- Requires an excellent credit score 
- One card design 

Here is my referral link: https://capital.one/34kcok6

Capital One frequently runs special offers if you apply for (and are approved) for a card AND you meet a minimum spending requirement. I applied for this card to receive 50,000 bonus miles after spending $3,000 in three months (the offer may now be different). The card also offers 2 miles per $1 spent, and it occasionally offers extra miles for specific purchases (currently they are offering 5x points on UberEats purchases). Miles can be redeemed to cover purchases, use at Amazon, get account credit, transfer to other loyalty programs, book a trip, and get gift cards. The miles convert to roughly $.01 per 1 mile, so the sign-on bonus I received was $500 extra. 

I charged all of my monthly expenses to this card to reach the sign-on bonus, so I would not recommend making additional purchases just to meet the requirements. I also pay the card off completely at the end of each month to avoid interest. This is my personal favorite card to use while travelling because the rewards really add up. I applied for Global Entry and received my statement credit withing two billing cycles, which makes this card even more enticing for frequent travellers. https://www.capitalone.com/credit-cards/benefits/

2. Discover It

PROS: 
- No foreign transaction fees 
- Does not require 
- Access to FICO to check your credit score 
- Easy to use mobile app that allows you to immediately lock your card if it is missing 
- 1% cash back on all purchases and 5% cash back on specific purchases (based on a quarterly schedule) 
- No minimum amount to redeem cash back 
- $50 referral bonus for both you and a friend who applies 
- No annual fee
- Discover matches all cash back you earn in the first year as a cardholder
- 25 card designs
- Cash back does not expire 
- Can check if you are pre-approved before applying 
- 0% Intro APR for 14 months (purchases and balance transfers) 

CONS: 
- Discover card so it is not as widely accepted
- Chip technology 
- 11.99% to 22.99% APR after inital period 

https://www.discover.com/credit-cards/cash-back/it-card.html?ICMPGN=BENPUB_DIT_TXT

3. Wells Fargo Propel American Express  

PROS: 
- No foreign transaction fees 
- No annual fee 
- Contactless payment capability (but it still has chip technology) 
- Easy to use mobile app that allows you to immediately lock your card if it is missing 
- Access to FICO to check your credit score 
- Points do not expire 
- Usually a sign-on bonus 
- 3x points on certain purchases, 1x points on all others 
- Cell phone theft protection (if you pay your cell phone bill with the card) 
- 0.00% introductory APR for 12 months from date of account opening
- Access to American Express and Wells Fargo discounts for cardholders

CONS: 
- American Express card so it is not as widely accepted 
- 14.49% to 24.99% APR after inital period 

Points can be redeemed for gift cards, flights, hotels and other travel offers, redeem to your account, merchandise, auctions, or limited-time offers. 

https://www.wellsfargo.com/credit-cards/propel
